update tbody element document (#21820)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/element/tbody/index.md

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/tabbed/tbody.html","tabbed-taller")}}

> The `<tbody>` element, along with its related {{HTMLElement("thead")}} and {{HTMLElement("tfoot")}} elements, provide useful semantic information that can be used when rendering for either screen or printer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<tbody>` element, along with its related {{HTMLElement("thead")}} and {{HTMLElement("tfoot")}} elements, provides semantic information that can be used when rendering for either screen or printer.
```

(I think "provides" because "The `<tbody>` element" is the subject? And I don't think "useful" adds anything here.)

Author: but the sentence is talking about tbody AND tfoot,  so the plural is needed.

I did not change this text, btw. so not really reviewing my PR here.

    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Tag omission</th>
      <td>

>         If the `<tbody>` element is not specified, browsers will automatically insert the element to encapulate any `<tr>` element would otherwise be children of the `<table>` element. The `<tbody>` end tag can be omitted if the `<tbody>` element is immediately followed by a {{HTMLElement("tbody")}} or {{HTMLElement("tfoot")}} element, or if there is no more content in the parent element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        If the `<tbody>` element is not specified, browsers will automatically insert the element to encapsulate any `<tr>` element that would otherwise be children of the `<table>` element. The `<tbody>` end tag can be omitted if the `<tbody>` element is immediately followed by a {{HTMLElement("tbody")}} or {{HTMLElement("tfoot")}} element, or if there is no more content in the parent element.
```

>         If the `<tbody>` element is not specified, browsers will automatically insert the element to encapulate any `<tr>` element would otherwise be children of the `<table>` element. The `<tbody>` end tag can be omitted if the `<tbody>` element is immediately followed by a {{HTMLElement("tbody")}} or {{HTMLElement("tfoot")}} element, or if there is no more content in the parent element.

Reviewer 3: Why not just replace the entire tag omission section here with the verbatim text from the HTML standard:

> A [tbody](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/tables.html#the-tbody-element) element's [start tag](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/syntax.html#syntax-start-tag) can be omitted if the first thing inside the [tbody](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/tables.html#the-tbody-element) element is a [tr](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/tables.html#the-tr-element) element, and if the element is not immediately preceded by a [tbody](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/tables.html#the-tbody-element), [thead](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/tables.html#the-thead-element), or [tfoot](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/tables.html#the-tfoot-element) element whose [end tag](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/syntax.html#syntax-end-tag) has been omitted. (It can't be omitted if the element is empty.)
    A [tbody](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/tables.html#the-tbody-element) element's [end tag](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/syntax.html#syntax-end-tag) can be omitted if the [tbody](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/tables.html#the-tbody-element) element is immediately followed by a [tbody](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/tables.html#the-tbody-element) or [tfoot](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/tables.html#the-tfoot-element) element, or if there is no more content in the parent element.

I think the fixes and refinements from @scottaohara here have made this MDN content better — but it’s still not an improvement over the existing text in the standard.

In general, the tag-omission sections in the standard are very carefully written, with precise language. And so in general, it’s risky for us to try to make the tag-omission sections in MDN a refinement over what’s in the standard; the end result is not usually any improvement — and in some cases (like the existing text here before @scottaohara’s changes), we end up introducing outright errors.

I have a longer comment to make about specific problems with what we have here, but for now I mainly wanted to propose we just use the verbatim text for the standard for this — for the reasons stated above.

>         If the `<tbody>` element is not specified, browsers will automatically insert the element to encapulate any `<tr>` element would otherwise be children of the `<table>` element. The `<tbody>` end tag can be omitted if the `<tbody>` element is immediately followed by a {{HTMLElement("tbody")}} or {{HTMLElement("tfoot")}} element, or if there is no more content in the parent element.

Reviewer 3: As far as one big specific problem with the existing text:

| If the `<tbody>` element is not specified

The problem with that is, the tag-omission section isn’t about not specifying the `tbody` *element* — instead, it’s about not specifying the `<tbody>` *start tag* or `</tbody>` *end tag*.

Part of the problem there is a general problem we have at MDN: One unfortunate convention we’ve followed in MDN — and that that we really should change — is that we style element names in angle brackets; e.g., `<tbody>`. That convention makes sense in plain-text environments like IRC channels or whatever where you only have a monospace font — but it makes no sense in MDN content, where we could just use code formatting.

In other words, `<tbody>` is *not* the name of an element — `tbody` is. `<tbody>` is a star tag, not an element name. But because we are all very familiar with HTML already, when we see somebody write “the `<tbody>` element”, we recognize that they’re just using a convention to put the element name in brackets.

But to someone newly learning HTML, by writing “the `<tbody>` element”, we’re confusing them — and mis-teaching them — by conflating what an element is with what a tag is.

At least let’s please never use the “the `<tbody>` element” convention in tag-omission sections — which are fundamentally about start tags and end tags, so in those sections it seems very important not to use a convention that elides the distinction between the element and its start tag.

>         If the `<tbody>` element is not specified, browsers will automatically insert the element to encapulate any `<tr>` element would otherwise be children of the `<table>` element. The `<tbody>` end tag can be omitted if the `<tbody>` element is immediately followed by a {{HTMLElement("tbody")}} or {{HTMLElement("tfoot")}} element, or if there is no more content in the parent element.

Reviewer 3: Another specific problem related to the “the `<tbody>` element” convention:

> The `<tbody>` end tag can be omitted if the `<tbody>` element is

So `<tbody>` isn’t an end tag. It looks like a start tag but apparently the intent here was to refer to the element name the element-name-in-angle-brackets convention.

So if we’re going to be referring to the end tag specifically, then we should use the `</tbody>` end tag — with the leading slash that clearly shows it’s an end tag.

But then we end up with this:

> The `</tbody>` end tag can be omitted if the `<tbody>` element is

And that’s confusing to learners because we are now mixing — in the same sentence — literal syntax  (`</tbody>`) with the element-name-in-angle-brackets convention. 

And that highlights the ambiguity which is already there: Some learners looking at that are naturally going to find themselves wondering, _Wait, since `</tbody>` is the right, precise way to refer to the end tag (as the standard does), then does `<tbody>` mean the star tag? Or does it mean the element?_

And that’s why what we should be doing instead is:

> The `</tbody>` end tag can be omitted if the `tbody` element is

…because that’s precise, and completely unambiguous.

## Usage notes

- If the table includes a {{HTMLElement("thead")}} block (to semantically identify a row of column headers), the `<tbody>` block _must_ come after it.
- If {{HTMLElement("tr")}} elements are specified outside of an existing `<tbody>` element, as direct children of the {{HTMLElement("table")}}, these elements will be encapsulated by a separate `<tbody>` element generated by the browser.
- When printing a document, the `<thead>` and {{htmlelement("tfoot")}} elements specify information that may be the same—or at least very similar—on every page of a multi-page table, while the `<tbody>` element's contents generally will differ from page to page.
- When a table is presented in a screen context (such as a window) which is not large enough to display the entire table, the {{Glossary("user agent")}} may let the user scroll the contents of the `<thead>`, `<tbody>`, `<tfoot>`, and {{HTMLElement("caption")}} blocks separately from one another for the same parent table.

> - You _may_ use more than one `<tbody>` per table as long as they are all consecutive. This lets you divide the rows in large tables into sections, each of which may be separately formatted if so desired. If not marked up to be consecutive elements, browsers will correct this author error, ensuring any `<thead>` and `<tfoo>` elements are rendered as the first and last elements of the table, respectively.

Author: ```suggestion
- You _may_ use more than one `<tbody>` per table as long as they are all consecutive. This lets you divide the rows in large tables into sections, each of which may be separately formatted if so desired. If not marked up to be consecutive elements, browsers will correct this author error, ensuring any `<thead>` and `<tfoot>` elements are rendered as the first and last elements of the table, respectively.
```

> - You _may_ use more than one `<tbody>` per table as long as they are all consecutive. This lets you divide the rows in large tables into sections, each of which may be separately formatted if so desired.  If not marked up to be consecutive elements, browsers will correct this author error, ensuring any `<thead>` and `<tfoo>` elements are rendered as the first and last elements of the table, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You _may_ use more than one `<tbody>` per table as long as they are all consecutive. This lets you divide the rows in large tables into sections, each of which may be separately formatted if so desired. If not marked up to be consecutive elements, browsers will correct this author error, ensuring any `<thead>` and `<tfoo>` elements are rendered as the first and last elements of the table, respectively.
```

(fix a markdownlint warning)

Author: The extra space after the period?  heh...

this did make me notice that i misspelled `tfoot` though.  so will commit this and then fix the typo
